chore(curriculum): add form validation lecture transcripts (#58616)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lecture-understanding-form-validation/6733d3ab69e94b7df7ee91b0.md

Here's another form, which submits to a relative path:

```html
<form action="/data">
  <input type="number" id="input" placeholder="Enter a number" name="number" />
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

This one submits to the `/data` path on the current domain. In our case, it would submit to `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data`.

The second attribute to control how a submission behaves is the `method` attribute. This attribute accepts a standard HTTP method, such as `GET` or `POST`, and uses that method when making the request to the `action` URL.

HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol and it is used to transfer data over the web.

HTTP methods are used to define the actions that can be performed on resources, such as `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, and so on. You will more about these methods in future lecture videos.

When a method is not set, the form will default to a `GET` request. A `GET` request is used to retrieve data from a specified resource without making any changes to it, and the parameters are typically appended to the URL in the form of a query string.

> The data in the form will be URL encoded as `name=value` pairs and appended to the `action` URL as query parameters. For example, by submitting the form with the value of `3342` for the `input` field from our previous example, the form would try to `GET` the URL `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data?number=3342`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data in the form will be URL encoded as `name=value` pairs and appended to the `action` URL as query parameters. For instance, by submitting the form from our previous example with the value of `3342` for the `input` field, the form would try to `GET` the URL `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data?number=3342`.
```

Watch the lecture video and answer the questions below.

# --transcript--

> How does the submit event work with forms?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How does the `submit` event work with forms?
```

> Let’s learn about how the submit event works with HTML forms. First, we need to understand *how* to submit a form. There are three ways a form can be submitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's learn about how the `submit` event works with HTML forms. First, we need to understand how to submit a form. There are three ways a form can be submitted.
```

The first is when the user clicks a button in the form which has the `type` attribute set to `submit`.

> The second is when the user presses the `Enter` key on any editable input field in the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second is when the user presses the Enter key on any editable input field in the form.
```
I think this shouldn't be surrounded by backticks since it's a key with different names depending on the language.

The third is through a JavaScript call to the `requestSubmit()` or `submit()` methods of the form element.

But what happens when a form is submitted? There’s a few things that happen, and the behavior of the form depends on its attributes.

> The first attribute that we need to look at is the `action` attribute.
> 
> The action attribute should contain either a URL or a relative path for the current domain. This value determines where the form attempts to send data. If you do not set an `action` attribute, the form will send data to the current page’s URL.
> 
> Here is an example of a form with an `action` attribute set to a specific URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first attribute that we need to look at is the `action` attribute. The `action` attribute should contain either a URL or a relative path for the current domain. This value determines where the form attempts to send data. If you do not set an `action` attribute, the form will send data to the current page’s URL. Here is an example of a form with an `action` attribute set to a specific URL:
```

```html
<form action="https://freecodecamp.org">
  <input type="number" id="input" placeholder="Enter a number" name="number" />
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

> When this form is submitted, it will send data to freeCodeCamp’s homepage, which probably won’t do anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this form is submitted, it will send data to freeCodeCamp's homepage, which probably won’t do anything.
```

> Here’s another form, which submits to a relative path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's another form, which submits to a relative path:
```

```html
<form action="/data">
  <input type="number" id="input" placeholder="Enter a number" name="number" />
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

This one submits to the `/data` path on the current domain. In our case, it would submit to `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data`.

The second attribute to control how a submission behaves is the `method` attribute. This attribute accepts a standard HTTP method, such as `GET` or `POST`, and uses that method when making the request to the `action` URL.

HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol and it is used to transfer data over the web.

> HTTP methods are used to define the actions that can be performed on resources, such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, and so on. You will more about these methods in future lecture videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP methods are used to define the actions that can be performed on resources, such as `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, and so on. You will more about these methods in future lecture videos.
```

> When a method is not set, the form will default to a "GET" request.
> 
> A `GET` request is used to retrieve data from a specified resource without making any changes to it, and the parameters are typically appended to the URL in the form of a query string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a method is not set, the form will default to a `GET` request. A `GET` request is used to retrieve data from a specified resource without making any changes to it, and the parameters are typically appended to the URL in the form of a query string.
```

> The data in the form will be URL encoded as `name=value` pairs and appended to the `action` URL as query parameters. Our form then tries to `GET` the URL `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data?number=3342`, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data in the form will be URL encoded as `name=value` pairs and appended to the `action` URL as query parameters. For example, by submitting the form with the value of `3342` for the `input` field from our previous example, the form would try to `GET` the URL `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data?number=3342`.
```

> This is great for something like a search form, where your user is querying data. But if you want your user to submit new data, such as in a registration form, the idiomatic method to use would be the `POST` method. The POST method is used to send data to the server to create or update a resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is great for something like a search form, where your user is querying data. But if you want your user to submit new data, such as in a registration form, the idiomatic method to use would be the `POST` method. The `POST` method is used to send data to the server to create or update a resource.
```

> Let’s set the `method` attribute to the value of `POST`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's set the `method` attribute to the value of `POST`:
```

```xml
<form action="/data" method="POST">
  <input type="number" id="input" placeholder="Enter a number" name="number" />
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

> When you send a `POST` request, a body can be included which contains the data for your request. So unlike a `GET`, the data are not appended to the URL, and our form sends the POST request to `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data`. The data, instead, can be found in the body of the request, still as URL-encoded form data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you send a `POST` request, a body can be included which contains the data for your request. So unlike a `GET`, the data are not appended to the URL, and our form sends the `POST` request to `http://127.0.0.1:5500/data`. The data, instead, can be found in the body of the request, still as URL-encoded form data.
```

> URL-encoded form data is when form data is converted into a string of key-value pairs, like `name=John+Doe&email=john%40example.com`, where special characters are replaced with encoded versions to safely send the data over the web. You will learn more about this in future lecture videos

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL-encoded form data is when form data is converted into a string of key-value pairs, like `name=John+Doe&email=john%40example.com`, where special characters are replaced with encoded versions to safely send the data over the web. You will learn more about this in future lecture videos.
```

> But maybe you don’t want to send the data as a URL-encoded form payload?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But maybe you don't want to send the data as a URL-encoded form payload?
```

The `form` element accepts an `enctype` attribute, which represents the encoding type to use for the data.

This attribute only accepts three values: `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` (which is the default, sending the data as a URL-encoded form body), `text/plain` (which sends the data in plaintext form, in `name=value` pairs separated by new lines), or `mulitpart/form-data`, which is specifically for handling forms with a file upload.

> In this video, you’ve learned the basics of form submissions. In future videos, we’ll dive deeper into working with forms and how they interact with the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this video, you've learned the basics of form submissions. In future videos, we'll dive deeper into working with forms and how they interact with the server.
```
